CPSC 254 Lab 10
Utilities

Use the cron command to make a shell script that runs every 5 minutes and prints time and date.
The file syslog.x can be found in the directory /var/log.  Use grep to determine how many entries exist containing the phrase “Job cron.daily“.

Show the command you used and include a screenshot of the result of this step.
Use the crontab command to cause your Linux system to generate a message every hour.  What command did you use?

Other utilities:
W Display who is logged into the system and what process executed by them.
Findmnt find mount file systems. It is used to list mount devices and can also mount or unmount devices as and when required
Examples:
$findmnt
 
To get output in list format.
$ findmnt -l
 
List file systems mounted in fstab.
$ findmnt -s
 
List mounted  files systems by file type
$ findmnt -t ext4
 
 
Ss socket statistics is a good alternative to netstat to gather information from kernel space and plays faster than the netstat utility.
Examples:
List all connections
$ ss |less
 
Greb only tcp traffic
 $ ss -A tcp
 
Grab process name and pid
$ ss -ltp
 
A number of useful network tools are available with net-tools which must be installed.

sudo apt install net-tools

These are the tools included with net-tools
arp is used to manipulate the kernel's ARP cache, usually to add or delete an entry, or to dump the entire cache.
dnsdomainname reports the system's DNS domain name.
domainname reports or sets the system's NIS/YP domain name.
hostname reports or sets the name of the current host system.
ifconfig is the main utility for configuring network interfaces.
nameif names network interfaces based on MAC addresses.
netstat is used to report network connections, routing tables, and interface statistics..
nisdomainname does the same as domainname.
plipconfig is used to fine tune the PLIP device parameters, to improve its performance.
rarp is used to manipulate the kernel's RARP table.
route is used to manipulate the IP routing table.
slattach attaches a network interface to a serial line. This allows you to use normal terminal lines for point-to-point links to other computers.
ypdomainname does the same as domainname.
