CPSC 254 Lab 5 
Part 1 Install Apache2

In Ubuntu, type sudo apt-get install apache2
You will use Apache2 later to create a website
Lab 5 Part 2
Begin Class Project
Read The Cathedral and the Bazaar
Here's a link to Eric Raymond's The Cathedral and the Bazaar.
This is a great summary of lessons for creating good open source software from CatB found in Wikipedia (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cathedral_and_the_Bazaar)
Of these 19, there are 2 main points and five lessons that I feel are particularly important to think about as we develop our project.
Key Point 1: Develop something you are interested in.
1. Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.
2. Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).
•	18. To solve an interesting problem, start by finding a problem that is interesting to you.
Key Point 2: Get feedback.
•	7. Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.
•	8. Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.
•	6. Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.
o	10. If you treat your beta-testers as if they're your most valuable resource, they will respond by becoming your most valuable resource.
o	11. The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better.
•	12. Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.
Requirements for class projects;
1.	Work with a small group:  no fewer than 2, no more than 3
2.	Pick a project that all group members agree to work on
3.	Must include existing software, available as open source
4.	Must include original code written by your group
5.	Must run on a PC or Mac on Linux or Free BSD
6.	Must use Version Control Software
7.	Must include documentation detailing
a.	Team members and responsibilities of each
b.	Title of project
c.	Code showing modifications
d.	Any tools used on project, including Version Control
8.	Project is due the week before Final exam – you will demonstrate it then
